	For my project , I wanted to figure out if female doctors more likely to work in places with low incomes than male doctors. I began by taking using the npi data file which gives ZIP codes for every doctor eligible to prescribe in the US as well in the 33rd column as well as their gender code in the 42nd column. I created a short awk script in the command line that would cut out the appropriate columns to file called genderzip.txt. Now that I had the correct columns I had many columns with blank columns and 10 digit long zipcodes. I ran a python script I called zipGenderCount.py that edited and outputted all the lines that had data in both columns and reduced the zip code to five digited, to a file called genderzipfinal.txt. “Final”, because this was finally all the data cleaned the way I wanted it.
	The plan was to count how many female and male doctors there were per zip code so that I could then compare the two. Then I would use the IncomePop.gz file to match that count of doctors to the appropriate zip code to see if it was true that females worked in the communities that had lower incomes. For those reasons, I started created a python script called,  tallyzipgender.py, that read in my final data file, and it created a file called zipgendercount.txt that has it’s first column as a zip code, the second how many female doctors there, and third how many male doctors there. 
	Once I had a count of all the doctors per every zip code. I put the male count and zip code and women count and zip code into separate dictionaries. I also put the zipIncome file into a dictionary. I created bins for rounding the incomes to the nearest 10,000. Meaning all zip codes that had an average income from, for example, 20,000-29,000 would be in bin 2. Then for the male dictionary I added the count into the appropriate bin and had an overall male total for that bin. The same was done with the females. I outputted the lists of the bins for the women and the men into two sepearte files.
	Finally, to make the bar graph, I made a python script called, makeGraph.py that opened those files, made labels 0 -17, and was able to plot the graph easily. I was surprised by my results because the graph shows there were always more women doctors per zip community annual income bin. With some quick google searches, I saw there are in fact more women phsyicians and more women in the population in general. Therefore, my hypothesis wasn’t true, but it still was very interesting to see millions lines of data represented in a chart, and learn something I wasn’t expecting from it.EMA




